request/readme.md, before:

# amplify.request

`amplify.request` is an abstraction layer that can be used for any kind of request for data. `amplify.request` sets out to separate the data retrieval and caching mechanisms from data requestors.

Using the `amplify.request.define` function you can create and maintain
your entire server interface and caching policy in a single place,
reducing the impact of any server interface changes. Components that
need data can retrieve the data through `amplify.request` without
concern for data caching, server interface,
location, data types, wrappers, and all the other specificities of the
client/server interaction.

Just getting started? Take a look at the [examples][examples] section
below for a few of the popular use cases with `amplify.request`.

## Usage

	amplify.request( string resourceId [, hash data [, function callback ]] )

Request a resource.

* `resourceId`: Identifier string for the resource.
* `data`: an object literal of data to be sent to the resource.
* `callback`: a function to call once the resource has been retrieved.

<pre><code>amplify.request( hash settings )</code></pre>

Request a resource.

* `settings`: a set of key/value pairs of settings for the request.
  * `resourceId`: Identifier string for the resource.
  * `data` (optional): Data associated with the request.
  * `success` (optional): Function to invoke on success.
  * `error` (optional): Function to invoke on error.

<pre><code>amplify.request.define(
	string resourceId , string requestType [, hash settings ] )</code></pre>

Define a resource.

* `resourceId`: Identifier string for the resource.
* `requestType`: The type of data retrieval method from the server. See the [request types][requestTypes] sections for more information.
* `settings`: a set of key/value pairs that relate to the server
  communication technology. The following settings are available:
  * any settings found in jQuery.ajax()
  * cache: see the [cache][cache] section for more details.
  * decoder: see the [decoder][decoder] section for more details.

<pre><code>amplify.request.define(string resourceId , function resource )</code></pre>

Define a custom request.

* `resourceId`: Identifier string for the resource.
* `resource`: Function to handle requests. Receives a hash with the following properties:
  * `resourceId`: Identifier string for the resource.
  * `data`: Data provided by the user.
  * `success`: Callback to invoke on success.
  * `error`: Callback to invoke on error.

## Request Types

### Built-in Types

`amplify.request` comes with built-in type of `ajax`

### Custom Types

You can choose to create additional types by adding to the `amplify.request.types` hash.
There is also an option to define custom one-off types for single requests.

## Data Handling

### Pre-defined Data

When defining an ajax request, you can provide data in the definition.
This data will be merged (via a deep extend) with any data provided with the request.
Data provided with the request will override data provided in the definition.

### URL substitution/routing

You can define variables in the URL of an ajax request by wrapping the variable in curly braces, e.g., `"/user/{id}"`.
The variable will be replaced by the respective value from the data provided in the request.
Whenever a variable is replaced, the value is removed from the data (not submitted as GET/POST data).
If there are variables that are not replaced, they will remain in the URL.

### Decoders

Decoders allow you to parse an ajax response before calling the success or error callback.
This allows you to return data marked with a status and react accordingly.
This also allows you to manipulate the data any way you want before passing the data along to the callback.

#### Built-in Decoders

[JSend](http://labs.omniti.com/labs/jsend) is a built in decoder
provided with the library.

#### Custom decoders

You can define new decoders by adding to the `amplify.request.decoders` hash. 
A popular use case for decoders is when you have a JSON envelope that
must be unpacked with each response from the server.

You can also define custom one-off decoders for single requests, which
is specified as a function in the settings hash for
`amplify.request.define`.

	amplify.request.decoders.decoderName = 
	    function( hash data, string status, object xhr,
	              function success, function error )

Define a decoder. `decoderName` should be replaced with the decoder name
of your choosing.

* `data`: Data returned from the ajax request.
* `status`: Status of the ajax request. See the [handling status][handlingstatus] section below.
* `xhr`: xhr object used to make the request.
* `success`: Callback to invoke on success.
* `error`: Callback to invoke on error.

## Cache

### In-memory Cache

There is a built-in memory cache. You can pass a boolean to enable caching of a request, e.g., `cache: true`.
You can also pass a number to specify that the response should be cached for a certain amount of time.
For example, `cache: 30` will cache the response for 30 milliseconds.

* `cache: boolean` Cache the data in memory for the remainder of this page load.
* `cache: number` Cache the data in memory for the specified number of milliseconds.

### Named Caches

* `cache: string` Cache the data using a pre-defined caching mechanism.

<pre><code>cache: {
	type: string,
	expires: number
}
</code></pre>

Cache the data using a pre-defined caching mechanism for the specified number
of milliseconds.

#### Persistent Client-side Cache

You can also persist a cache if `amplify.store` has been loaded.
You can specify `cache: "persist"` to cache in the default store
or you can specify any of the specific stores available, e.g., `cache: "localStorage"`.
You can also use the hash form listed above to store in a persistent cache with
an expiration.

_Note: You must include `amplify.store.js` before `amplify.request.js` to use persistent caches._

### Custom Cache

You can also create additional cache types by adding to the `amplify.request.cache` hash.

	amplify.request.cache.customCacheName = 
		function( hash resource, hash settings, hash ajaxSettings )

Definition for a caching mechanism. `customCacheName` should be replaced
with the custom name of your choosing.

* `resource`: The definition of the resource being requested.
* `settings`: The settings for the request.
* `ajaxSettings`: The settings that will be passed to `jQuery.ajax()`.

## Examples

The examples assume that the request location returns the following as
json unless specified otherwise:

	{
		"foo" : "bar",
		"baz" : "qux"
	}

### Set up and use a request utilizing Ajax

	amplify.request.define( "ajaxExample1", "ajax", {
		url: "/myApiUrl",
		dataType: "json",
		type: "GET"
	});

	// later in code
	amplify.request( "ajaxExample1", function( data ) {
		data.foo; // bar
	});

### Set up and use a request utilizing Ajax and Caching

	amplify.request.define( "ajaxExample2", "ajax", {
		url: "/myApiUrl",
		dataType: "json",
		type: "GET",
		cache: "persist"
	});

	// later in code
	amplify.request( "ajaxExample2", function( data ) {
		data.foo; // bar
	});

	// a second call will result in pulling from the cache
	amplify.request( "ajaxExample2", function( data ) {
		data.baz; // qux
	})

### Set up and use a RESTful request utilizing Ajax

	amplify.request.define( "ajaxRESTFulExample", "ajax", {
		url: "/myRestFulApi/{type}/{id}",
		type: "GET"
	})

	// later in code
	amplify.request( "ajaxRESTFulExample",
		{
			type: "foo",
			id: "bar"
		},
		function( data ) {
			// /myRESTFulApi/foo/bar was the URL used
			data.foo; // bar
		}
	);

### POST data with Ajax

	amplify.request.define( "ajaxPostExample", "ajax", {
		url: "/myRestFulApi",
		type: "POST"
	})

	// later in code
	amplify.request( "ajaxPostExample",
		{
			type: "foo",
			id: "bar"
		},
		function( data ) {
			data.foo; // bar
		}
	);

### Setting up and using decoders

This example assumes the following envelope format:

**Success:**

	{
		"status": "success",
		"data" : {
			"foo": "bar",
			"baz": "qux"
		}
	}

**Fail ( or Error ):**

	{
		"status": "fail",
		"message": "failure message."
	}

**Example:**

	amplify.request.decoders.appEnvelope =
		function ( data, status, xhr, success, error ) {
			if ( data.status === "success" ) {
				success( data.data );
			} else if ( data.status === "fail" || data.status === "error" ) {
				error( data.message, data.status );
			} else {
				error( data.message , "fatal" );
			}
		};

	amplify.request.define( "decoderExample", "ajax", {
		url: "/myAjaxUrl",
		type: "POST",
		decoder: "appEnvelope"
	});

	amplify.request({
		resourceId: "decoderExample",
		success: function( data ) {
			data.foo; // bar
		},
		error: function( message, level ) {
			alert( "always handle errors with alerts." );
		}
	});

### POST with caching and single-use decoder

This example assumes the following envelope format:

**Success:**

	{
		"status": "success",
		"data" : {
			"foo": "bar",
			"baz": "qux"
		}
	}

**Fail ( or Error ):**

	{
		"status": "fail",
		"message": "failure message."
	}

**Example:**

	amplify.request.define( "decoderSingleExample", "ajax", {
		url: "/myAjaxUrl",
		type: "POST",
		decoder: function ( data, status, xhr, success, error ) {
			if ( data.status === "success" ) {
				success( data.data );
			} else if ( data.status === "fail" || data.status === "error" ) {
				error( data.message, data.status );
			} else {
				error( data.message , "fatal" );
			}
		}
	});

	amplify.request({
		resourceId: "decoderSingleExample",
		success: function( data ) {
			data.foo; // bar
		},
		error: function( message, level ) {
			alert( "always handle errors with alerts." );
		}
	});

## Handling Status


### Status in Success and Error Callbacks

`amplify.request` comes with built in support for status. The status
parameter appears in the default success or error callbacks when using
an ajax definition.

	amplfiy.request.define( "statusExample1", "ajax", {
		//...
	});
	
	amplify.request({
		resourceId: "statusExample1",
		success: function( data, status ) {
		},
		error: function( data, status ) {
		}
	});

With the success callback, the only default status is `success`.
With the error callback two default statuses are possible: `error` and
`abort`.

### Status Codes and Decoders

When specifying a custom decoder for request definition a status code
will be passed in as a parameter. You can determine results from a request based on
this status. When a success or error callback is executed, the
appropriate status will be set by `amplify.request`.

**A basic decoder example:**

	amplfiy.request.define( "statusExample2", "ajax", {
		decoder: function( data, status, xhr, success, error ) {
			if ( status === "success" ) {
				success( data );
			} else {
				error( data );
			}
		}
	});
	
	amplify.request({
		resourceId: "statusExample2",
		success: function( data, status ) {
			// status will be "success"
		},
		error: function( data, status ) {
			// status could be "error" or "abort"
		}
	});

**A request is aborted by using the object returned by a request call:**

	amplfiy.request.define( "statusExample3", "ajax", {
		//...
	});
	
	var myRequest = amplify.request({
		resourceId: "statusExample3",
		success: function( data, status ) {
			// status will be "success"
		},
		error: function( data, status ) {
			// status could be "abort"
		}
	});
	
	// sometime later in code
	myRequest.abort();

### Subscribing to status events

For an alternative to handling issues and statuses you can subscribe to a series of
globally available message that are published during the request
process.

	subscribe( "request.error", function callback );

Subscribe a function to be executed when any error callback is invoked
for any request.

	subscribe( "request.success", function callback );

Subscribe a function to be executed when any success callback is invoked
for any request.

	subscribe( "request.complete", function callback );

Subscribe a function to be executed when any request complete,
regardless of error or success.

The subscriptions and statuses can be used to create issue handlers:

	subscribe( "request.error", function( settings, data, status ) {
		if ( status === "abort" ) {
			// deal with explicit abort of request
		} else {
			// deal with normal error
		}
	});

### Statuses with jsend

The jsend request type has an extra default status. The [jsend
spec](http://labs.omniti.com/labs/jsend) includes a fail status. If a
jsend fail occurs, the error callback ( and appropriate error
subscriptions ) will be called with a status of `fail`.

### Customizing statuses

When calling a success or error callback through a decoder you can
specify a custom status to be sent to the callback as the second
parameter for the callback function.

**An example with a success callback:**

	amplfiy.request.define( "customStatusExample", "ajax", {
		decoder: function( data, status, xhr, success, error ) {
			var customStatus = status;
			if ( someWarningCondition ) {
				customStatus = "warning";
			}
			success( data, "warning" )
		}
	});
	
	amplify.request({
		resourceId: "customStatusExample",
		success: function( data, status ) {
			// status could be "success" or "warning"
		}
	});


**An example with an error callback:**

	amplfiy.request.define( "customStatusExample2", "ajax", {
		decoder: function( data, status, xhr, success, error ) {
			var customStatus = status;
			if ( status === "error" && someCriticalCondition ) {
				customStatus = "zomg";
			}
			if ( status != "success" ) {
				error( data, customStatus );
			}
		}
	});
	
	amplify.request({
		resourceId: "customStatusExample2",
		error: function( data, status ) {
			// status could be "error", "abort", or "zomg"
		}
	});


[requestTypes]: #request_types "request types"
[cache]: #cache "caching"
[decoder]: #decoders "decoders"
[examples]: #examples "examples"
[handlingstatus]: #handling_status "handling status"

Commit message:

Added note about jQuery dependency in request

request/readme.md, after:

# amplify.request

`amplify.request` is an abstraction layer that can be used for any kind of request for data. `amplify.request` sets out to separate the data retrieval and caching mechanisms from data requestors.

Using the `amplify.request.define` function you can create and maintain
your entire server interface and caching policy in a single place,
reducing the impact of any server interface changes. Components that
need data can retrieve the data through `amplify.request` without
concern for data caching, server interface,
location, data types, wrappers, and all the other specificities of the
client/server interaction.

Just getting started? Take a look at the [examples][examples] section
below for a few of the popular use cases with `amplify.request`.

**NOTE:** `amplify.request` depends on the use of jQuery 1.4 or higher when the `ajax` request type is used. 

## Usage

	amplify.request( string resourceId [, hash data [, function callback ]] )

Request a resource.

* `resourceId`: Identifier string for the resource.
* `data`: an object literal of data to be sent to the resource.
* `callback`: a function to call once the resource has been retrieved.

<pre><code>amplify.request( hash settings )</code></pre>

Request a resource.

* `settings`: a set of key/value pairs of settings for the request.
  * `resourceId`: Identifier string for the resource.
  * `data` (optional): Data associated with the request.
  * `success` (optional): Function to invoke on success.
  * `error` (optional): Function to invoke on error.

<pre><code>amplify.request.define(
	string resourceId , string requestType [, hash settings ] )</code></pre>

Define a resource.

* `resourceId`: Identifier string for the resource.
* `requestType`: The type of data retrieval method from the server. See the [request types][requestTypes] sections for more information.
* `settings`: a set of key/value pairs that relate to the server
  communication technology. The following settings are available:
  * any settings found in jQuery.ajax()
  * cache: see the [cache][cache] section for more details.
  * decoder: see the [decoder][decoder] section for more details.

<pre><code>amplify.request.define(string resourceId , function resource )</code></pre>

Define a custom request.

* `resourceId`: Identifier string for the resource.
* `resource`: Function to handle requests. Receives a hash with the following properties:
  * `resourceId`: Identifier string for the resource.
  * `data`: Data provided by the user.
  * `success`: Callback to invoke on success.
  * `error`: Callback to invoke on error.

## Request Types

### Built-in Types

`amplify.request` comes with built-in type of `ajax`

### Custom Types

You can choose to create additional types by adding to the `amplify.request.types` hash.
There is also an option to define custom one-off types for single requests.

**NOTE:** `amplify.request` depends on the use of jQuery 1.4 or higher when the `ajax` request type is used. 

## Data Handling

### Pre-defined Data

When defining an ajax request, you can provide data in the definition.
This data will be merged (via a deep extend) with any data provided with the request.
Data provided with the request will override data provided in the definition.

### URL substitution/routing

You can define variables in the URL of an ajax request by wrapping the variable in curly braces, e.g., `"/user/{id}"`.
The variable will be replaced by the respective value from the data provided in the request.
Whenever a variable is replaced, the value is removed from the data (not submitted as GET/POST data).
If there are variables that are not replaced, they will remain in the URL.

### Decoders

Decoders allow you to parse an ajax response before calling the success or error callback.
This allows you to return data marked with a status and react accordingly.
This also allows you to manipulate the data any way you want before passing the data along to the callback.

#### Built-in Decoders

[JSend](http://labs.omniti.com/labs/jsend) is a built in decoder
provided with the library.

#### Custom decoders

You can define new decoders by adding to the `amplify.request.decoders` hash. 
A popular use case for decoders is when you have a JSON envelope that
must be unpacked with each response from the server.

You can also define custom one-off decoders for single requests, which
is specified as a function in the settings hash for
`amplify.request.define`.

	amplify.request.decoders.decoderName = 
	    function( hash data, string status, object xhr,
	              function success, function error )

Define a decoder. `decoderName` should be replaced with the decoder name
of your choosing.

* `data`: Data returned from the ajax request.
* `status`: Status of the ajax request. See the [handling status][handlingstatus] section below.
* `xhr`: xhr object used to make the request.
* `success`: Callback to invoke on success.
* `error`: Callback to invoke on error.

## Cache

### In-memory Cache

There is a built-in memory cache. You can pass a boolean to enable caching of a request, e.g., `cache: true`.
You can also pass a number to specify that the response should be cached for a certain amount of time.
For example, `cache: 30` will cache the response for 30 milliseconds.

* `cache: boolean` Cache the data in memory for the remainder of this page load.
* `cache: number` Cache the data in memory for the specified number of milliseconds.

### Named Caches

* `cache: string` Cache the data using a pre-defined caching mechanism.

<pre><code>cache: {
	type: string,
	expires: number
}
</code></pre>

Cache the data using a pre-defined caching mechanism for the specified number
of milliseconds.

#### Persistent Client-side Cache

You can also persist a cache if `amplify.store` has been loaded.
You can specify `cache: "persist"` to cache in the default store
or you can specify any of the specific stores available, e.g., `cache: "localStorage"`.
You can also use the hash form listed above to store in a persistent cache with
an expiration.

_Note: You must include `amplify.store.js` before `amplify.request.js` to use persistent caches._

### Custom Cache

You can also create additional cache types by adding to the `amplify.request.cache` hash.

	amplify.request.cache.customCacheName = 
		function( hash resource, hash settings, hash ajaxSettings )

Definition for a caching mechanism. `customCacheName` should be replaced
with the custom name of your choosing.

* `resource`: The definition of the resource being requested.
* `settings`: The settings for the request.
* `ajaxSettings`: The settings that will be passed to `jQuery.ajax()`.

## Examples

The examples assume that the request location returns the following as
json unless specified otherwise:

	{
		"foo" : "bar",
		"baz" : "qux"
	}

### Set up and use a request utilizing Ajax

	amplify.request.define( "ajaxExample1", "ajax", {
		url: "/myApiUrl",
		dataType: "json",
		type: "GET"
	});

	// later in code
	amplify.request( "ajaxExample1", function( data ) {
		data.foo; // bar
	});

### Set up and use a request utilizing Ajax and Caching

	amplify.request.define( "ajaxExample2", "ajax", {
		url: "/myApiUrl",
		dataType: "json",
		type: "GET",
		cache: "persist"
	});

	// later in code
	amplify.request( "ajaxExample2", function( data ) {
		data.foo; // bar
	});

	// a second call will result in pulling from the cache
	amplify.request( "ajaxExample2", function( data ) {
		data.baz; // qux
	})

### Set up and use a RESTful request utilizing Ajax

	amplify.request.define( "ajaxRESTFulExample", "ajax", {
		url: "/myRestFulApi/{type}/{id}",
		type: "GET"
	})

	// later in code
	amplify.request( "ajaxRESTFulExample",
		{
			type: "foo",
			id: "bar"
		},
		function( data ) {
			// /myRESTFulApi/foo/bar was the URL used
			data.foo; // bar
		}
	);

### POST data with Ajax

	amplify.request.define( "ajaxPostExample", "ajax", {
		url: "/myRestFulApi",
		type: "POST"
	})

	// later in code
	amplify.request( "ajaxPostExample",
		{
			type: "foo",
			id: "bar"
		},
		function( data ) {
			data.foo; // bar
		}
	);

### Setting up and using decoders

This example assumes the following envelope format:

**Success:**

	{
		"status": "success",
		"data" : {
			"foo": "bar",
			"baz": "qux"
		}
	}

**Fail ( or Error ):**

	{
		"status": "fail",
		"message": "failure message."
	}

**Example:**

	amplify.request.decoders.appEnvelope =
		function ( data, status, xhr, success, error ) {
			if ( data.status === "success" ) {
				success( data.data );
			} else if ( data.status === "fail" || data.status === "error" ) {
				error( data.message, data.status );
			} else {
				error( data.message , "fatal" );
			}
		};

	amplify.request.define( "decoderExample", "ajax", {
		url: "/myAjaxUrl",
		type: "POST",
		decoder: "appEnvelope"
	});

	amplify.request({
		resourceId: "decoderExample",
		success: function( data ) {
			data.foo; // bar
		},
		error: function( message, level ) {
			alert( "always handle errors with alerts." );
		}
	});

### POST with caching and single-use decoder

This example assumes the following envelope format:

**Success:**

	{
		"status": "success",
		"data" : {
			"foo": "bar",
			"baz": "qux"
		}
	}

**Fail ( or Error ):**

	{
		"status": "fail",
		"message": "failure message."
	}

**Example:**

	amplify.request.define( "decoderSingleExample", "ajax", {
		url: "/myAjaxUrl",
		type: "POST",
		decoder: function ( data, status, xhr, success, error ) {
			if ( data.status === "success" ) {
				success( data.data );
			} else if ( data.status === "fail" || data.status === "error" ) {
				error( data.message, data.status );
			} else {
				error( data.message , "fatal" );
			}
		}
	});

	amplify.request({
		resourceId: "decoderSingleExample",
		success: function( data ) {
			data.foo; // bar
		},
		error: function( message, level ) {
			alert( "always handle errors with alerts." );
		}
	});

## Handling Status


### Status in Success and Error Callbacks

`amplify.request` comes with built in support for status. The status
parameter appears in the default success or error callbacks when using
an ajax definition.

	amplfiy.request.define( "statusExample1", "ajax", {
		//...
	});
	
	amplify.request({
		resourceId: "statusExample1",
		success: function( data, status ) {
		},
		error: function( data, status ) {
		}
	});

With the success callback, the only default status is `success`.
With the error callback two default statuses are possible: `error` and
`abort`.

### Status Codes and Decoders

When specifying a custom decoder for request definition a status code
will be passed in as a parameter. You can determine results from a request based on
this status. When a success or error callback is executed, the
appropriate status will be set by `amplify.request`.

**A basic decoder example:**

	amplfiy.request.define( "statusExample2", "ajax", {
		decoder: function( data, status, xhr, success, error ) {
			if ( status === "success" ) {
				success( data );
			} else {
				error( data );
			}
		}
	});
	
	amplify.request({
		resourceId: "statusExample2",
		success: function( data, status ) {
			// status will be "success"
		},
		error: function( data, status ) {
			// status could be "error" or "abort"
		}
	});

**A request is aborted by using the object returned by a request call:**

	amplfiy.request.define( "statusExample3", "ajax", {
		//...
	});
	
	var myRequest = amplify.request({
		resourceId: "statusExample3",
		success: function( data, status ) {
			// status will be "success"
		},
		error: function( data, status ) {
			// status could be "abort"
		}
	});
	
	// sometime later in code
	myRequest.abort();

### Subscribing to status events

For an alternative to handling issues and statuses you can subscribe to a series of
globally available message that are published during the request
process.

	subscribe( "request.error", function callback );

Subscribe a function to be executed when any error callback is invoked
for any request.

	subscribe( "request.success", function callback );

Subscribe a function to be executed when any success callback is invoked
for any request.

	subscribe( "request.complete", function callback );

Subscribe a function to be executed when any request complete,
regardless of error or success.

The subscriptions and statuses can be used to create issue handlers:

	subscribe( "request.error", function( settings, data, status ) {
		if ( status === "abort" ) {
			// deal with explicit abort of request
		} else {
			// deal with normal error
		}
	});

### Statuses with jsend

The jsend request type has an extra default status. The [jsend
spec](http://labs.omniti.com/labs/jsend) includes a fail status. If a
jsend fail occurs, the error callback ( and appropriate error
subscriptions ) will be called with a status of `fail`.

### Customizing statuses

When calling a success or error callback through a decoder you can
specify a custom status to be sent to the callback as the second
parameter for the callback function.

**An example with a success callback:**

	amplfiy.request.define( "customStatusExample", "ajax", {
		decoder: function( data, status, xhr, success, error ) {
			var customStatus = status;
			if ( someWarningCondition ) {
				customStatus = "warning";
			}
			success( data, "warning" )
		}
	});
	
	amplify.request({
		resourceId: "customStatusExample",
		success: function( data, status ) {
			// status could be "success" or "warning"
		}
	});


**An example with an error callback:**

	amplfiy.request.define( "customStatusExample2", "ajax", {
		decoder: function( data, status, xhr, success, error ) {
			var customStatus = status;
			if ( status === "error" && someCriticalCondition ) {
				customStatus = "zomg";
			}
			if ( status != "success" ) {
				error( data, customStatus );
			}
		}
	});
	
	amplify.request({
		resourceId: "customStatusExample2",
		error: function( data, status ) {
			// status could be "error", "abort", or "zomg"
		}
	});


[requestTypes]: #request_types "request types"
[cache]: #cache "caching"
[decoder]: #decoders "decoders"
[examples]: #examples "examples"
[handlingstatus]: #handling_status "handling status"
